# Bombs and Bikinis: The Story of Nuclear Testing in the Pacific

**Alan Liang**  
*History 460: American Environmental History*  
*December 19, 2023*

## Introduction

Thousands of miles off the shore of California lies a chain of 1,<sup>156</sup> islands in the middle of the Pacific. These islands are two times farther away from continental United States than the state of Hawaii, and are scattered across 750,<sup>000</sup> square miles of the ocean’s surface. Despite being so widespread, the total landmass of the islands amounts to only 70 square miles.<sup>1</sup>

Reaching these islands is not so easy. There is only one main way to get here from the United States. You must first book a ticket to Daniel K. Inouye International Airport in Honolulu, Hawaii. Then, you take a connecting flight to Amata Kabua International Airport in Majuro, the capital of the Marshall Islands. Make sure to plan your trip well, as only one airline offers this route, with only a few flights per week. If you start in Los Angeles, this journey can take nearly half a day or even more, if you account for the twenty-hour time difference. Upon landing in Majuro, you will descend a rickety mobile staircase, before walking to a tiny shack that represents customs. The employee quickly glances at your documents before sending you on your way, a process that takes no more than a couple minutes. Leaving the small airport, you immediately see the beautiful green palms that dance with the warm breeze. The trees stand aligned on the perfectly smooth beach, devoid of human footprints. Looking past the beach lays an endless blue carpet. If you listen closely, you may hear the gentle whisper of the susurrating ocean. With one breath, you will feel the briny air infiltrate your nostrils. Everything you could imagine about a paradise getaway lies within these islands.

It’s difficult to get lost here. Tracing your steps is easy when the atoll only has a single road, Lagoon road, which extends the full thirty mile length of the island. In fact, Lagoon road is the longest road in all of Micronesia. Despite this impressive feat, Majuro is still quite small, as it's only a quarter of a mile wide on average. Taxi drivers know directions as “Laura” and “Rita”, which indicate going towards or away from the airport. Looking out the cab window to the Majuro Grand Hotel, you will pass by many stores, churches, and an occasional restaurant, all of which are advertised by big English signs. The journey to this atoll is long and difficult for the few interested tourists, so how did the English language travel across the Pacific to reach these desolate islands?

Though seemingly paradoxical, the geographic isolation of the Marshall Islands and Bikini Atoll didn’t result in its political isolation. In fact, the result was quite the opposite. Beginning in the 1850s, Christian missionaries arrived in the Marshall Islands to spread their faith throughout Micronesia. The atoll also eventually became a popular resting spot for whalers. By World War I, however, the Marshall islands were seized by the Japanese for its strategic location as a maritime base. Their reign in the islands was short lived. By 1944, the Japanese were forced out of the Marshall Islands by the United States as a result of World War II.<sup>2</sup>

In 1947, the United Nations administered the Trust Territory of Pacific Islands, giving the United States authority over Micronesia. They were allowed to control the mobility of those entering and leaving the region. But this came with one important responsibility: “to protect the rights, safety, and health of island populations without discrimination and advance educational attainment through infrastructural development.”<sup>3</sup> However, their governance led to anything but their protection. Instead, the islands became an epicenter of the United States’ nuclear testing in the twentieth century. Between 1946 and 1958, the U.S. military dropped sixty-seven atomic weapons across the Marshall Islands, twenty-three of which were dropped on Bikini Atoll. The effects of the atomic testing have had significant repercussions on the health and livelihood of the Marshallese, many of which they still endure today. In comparison to the bombs that devastated Japan in World War II, scientists estimated the largest bomb that was dropped, Bravo, to be a thousand times more powerful.<sup>4</sup> So how did these “desolate” islands become the US military’s playground, despite being thousands of miles off the coast of continental United States?

## Place-myths

All of it boils down to the place-myths associated with the Marshall Islands. A place-myth is a lens that is used to interpret the meaning, construction, and purpose of a place.<sup>5</sup> Essentially, it is the cultural values associated with a landscape. Place-myths are both dynamic and contested. The dynamic nature of place-myths refers to the ability for interpretation to change over time. They are also contested, as places have contrasting meanings to different populations, which can often result in cultural clashes.

From the moment the United States took control of Bikini Atoll, differing place-myths became the root of conflict. Because the Marshall Islands were thousands of miles away from the rest of the United States, it was treated as a junkyard for the U.S Military. In their eyes, the atoll was a suitable location for nuclear testing. While there were many western place-myths for Bikini Atoll and the neighboring islands, the dominant myth labeled them as a “deserted isle.”<sup>6</sup> The United States believed it to be a place, devoid of life, and ultimately for their taking. The Bikinians, on the other hand, had a different place-myth for Bikini Atoll. It was a culturally rich homeland that provided for the Bikinians. They captured fish, harvested coconuts, honored deities, and buried their ancestors on the land.<sup>7</sup> They survived off the same land that was eventually bombed by the United States because it was “empty.”

## Relocation

The United States did not initially deem Bikini Atoll as the perfect testing site, but they saw its potential to become that. They turned Bikini Atoll into their vision of it as an abandoned isle suitable for testing, by removing its people, blasting open the lagoon, and constructing test structures.<sup>8</sup> To the United States, relocating the Bikinians was the least significant barrier to their plan. The Bikinians were viewed by most as savages. The New York Times described the Bikinians as “the most backwards… living on fish and coconut with so little of everything.”<sup>9</sup> The Americans, who viewed themselves as more civilized, and therefore superior, decided they had better uses for the land. They had a right to use it for nuclear testing. At first, the United States relocated the Bikinians to Rongerik Atoll. Through American place-myths, Rongerik was perceived to be an upgraded version of Bikini Atoll. Both were relatively the same size, had a lagoon, as well as an abundance of coconuts and fish. In fact, Navy Commodore Ben Wyatt describes Rongerik as bigger and richer as there were plenty of food sources for them than Bikini itself.<sup>10</sup> Plus, it was uninhabited. This meant the Bikinians could easily take over the new Atoll. An admiral who visited the Bikinians on Rongerik even thanked them for their sacrifices, and stated that he was glad to see the Bikinians in their nice, new, happy home.<sup>11</sup> Unfortunately, Rongerik was far from nice and happy for the Bikinians. In Marshallese culture, no one lived on Rongerik because the land was cursed. An evil spirit lived on the atoll. The spirit had contaminated all the fish in the lagoon as well as the coconuts that were on the trees. What was thought of as a rich land by the Americans, ended up being responsible for the famine among the Bikinians, who forced themselves to consume poisoned fish and coconuts to survive. Eventually, the people became sick, and wanted to return to their home. Even though they despised the living conditions on Rongerik, they endured it for two years, simply because it was the closest place to their homeland of Bikini atoll.<sup>12</sup>

After the two harsh years of suffering on Rongerik, the Bikinians were relocated to a different place. Kili Island. Once again, it was thought of as a suitable alternative for Bikini atoll in the eyes of the United States. After the Bikinians settled in, the military still found it confusing as to why they were still famished. The fish weren’t poisoned, and the soil was fertile. The famine can be explained by the contesting place-myths of Kili. While Kili may have been suitable for a Western society, it did not support Bikinian culture. First, Kili was an island, not an atoll, which meant there was no lagoon. The Bikinians were accustomed to fishing in lagoons, not open waters. Second, the Bikinians were not an agricultural society, meaning the fertile soil was of no use to them. They were fishers and gatherers, not farmers.<sup>13</sup>

## In the Public Eye

While the Bikinians suffered from the clashing place-myths between their culture and the United States, the United States had already started their atomic tests on Bikini atoll. The first series of tests were named “Operation Crossroads”. Operation Crossroads aimed to observe the effect of nuclear weapons on naval vessels. Initially, the operation was seen as a spectacle to the American public. It was seen as a revolution. People rushed to see bomb testing footage in theaters. Newspapers advertised the footage as “terrific” and “dramatic” (as shown in the picture above).<sup>14</sup> To many Americans, this event was simply entertainment. To the Bikinians, however, the testing was about the loss of their homeland. Geographer and environmental scientist Jeffery Sasha Davis described the month leading up to Operation Crossroads as one big photoshoot by National Geographic. Church services were provided multiple times throughout every day to ensure that videographers could capture the Bikinians from all the perfect angles. The results of these films further portrayed the Bikinians as exotic and primitive.<sup>15</sup> The United States then used their cultural superiority to justify the detachment of the Bikinians from their atoll. At last, with no one left on the Atoll, the United States had carved Bikini Atoll into the “perfect” testing site. It had become a deserted isle.

In the public eye, Operation Crossroads was seen as a massive success. Naval Admiral Blandy, one of the heads of operation, celebrated the testing with his wife and his colleague, Admiral Randy. The three of them are seen dressed up, smiling at the camera while cutting into a cake decorated as an atomic mushroom cloud.<sup>16</sup> The image reveals the American view of the experiment as a triumph, all while the Bikinians were largely disregarded by the Americans. They celebrated the destruction of the Bikinian homeland in the name of science.

However, views on Operation Crossroads eventually shifted once people learned more about its details. People grew angry upon learning about the animals that were strapped to the atoll and on naval ships during the testing.<sup>17</sup> The researchers intended to use the animals, to see how organisms would react to the extreme levels of radiation. Military reports expose that a total of 200 pigs,<sup>200</sup> mice,<sup>60</sup> guinea pigs,<sup>204</sup> goats, and 5,<sup>000</sup> mice were involved in the tests.<sup>18</sup> While public concern for animal testing is valid, the concerns for human testing were absent in the discussion. The concern for testing on the land and the native wildlife were also absent. The bomb killed thousands of native fish instantly, along with many more that were infected by the lingering radiation. The fishing industry took a devastating blow, not only within the Marshall Islands, but internationally. Japanese fishers suffered. Only one in every two hundred fish was deemed safe for human consumption, triggering a crash in industry. Radiation levels of Bikini Atoll exceeded the daily dose of safe exposure to radiation by 80,<sup>000</sup> times.<sup>19</sup> On Ailingae Atoll, the native birds became too sick to fly, even though the atoll is more than a hundred miles away from Bikini.<sup>20</sup> King Juda, the leader of the Bikinians, described sentiments of being treated like animals by the United States. To the United States, the Bikinians were just guinea pigs for their science experiment.<sup>21</sup> Yet the American public seemed to prioritize the rights of the actual guinea pigs, rather than the Bikinians. Their home had become a nuclear graveyard. It was uninhabitable and unrecognizable.

## Tourism

Following the nuclear testing at Bikini Atoll, the American place-myth for the land shifted. Media popularized Bikini Atoll in various ways, all of which strayed from the atrocities that occurred there. No longer was it a nuclear graveyard. It became known as a tropical paradise.<sup>22</sup> Beginning with the design of the two-pieced swimsuit, the bikini, the Marshall Islands began to be associated with a luxurious island getaway. The name for this popular swimsuit was intentional. Much like how scientists split atoms to create the very bombs dropped at Bikini Atoll, French designers named the bikini after splitting the woman’s swimsuit into two parts.<sup>23</sup> The swimsuit not only cut down on fabrics usage, which was rationed at the time, but it also invoked a new global fashion trend. Slowly, the idea of attractive women who were known as “atomic blondes” or “bombshells” took over the meanings and stories of the Bikinians among popular media. Seeing an attractive woman was equivalent to the effect of an atomic bomb: it will blow your mind.<sup>24</sup> This western denotation of bikini strays far from the origins of the Bikinian word. “Bikini” comes from the Bikinian word “pikinni.” By studying the etymology of pikinni, we can deconstruct this word to “pik” and “ni,” which translates to “surface” and “coconut,” respectively. While the husk of the coconut may seem trivial, it is an important aspect of Bikini culture. It is the building block of their community. Using the coconut husk, they construct boats, fasten buildings, and weave clothes.<sup>25</sup> All of the culture behind pikinni was erased. The word was culturally appropriated into a sexualized term associated with western female beauty.

Divers began reinforcing the idea of Bikini as a tropical paradise as they discovered the beauty at Bikini Atoll. The islands soon became a popular diving spot for those who enjoyed exploring the ocean depths and observing sunken warships. Expert divers wrote about their surreal experiences in the Bikinian waters. To them, it was a “paradise, utopia, Garden of Eden, unspoiled by development.” Divers even went as far to say that Bikini Atoll is a wilderness, a place that has been untouched for forty years.<sup>26</sup> This transition from an atomic graveyard to a tourist paradise follows a similar timeline to the one faced by indigenous populations of continental United States. In the 18th century, American colonists were obsessed with exploring the frontier. It was seen as a desolate, barren place filled with savages. It was simply a waste. By the mid-19th century, this perspective changed. Everyone started to advocate for the protection of what was once considered “wastelands,” resulting in the formation of what we now know as national parks.<sup>27</sup> Throughout these movements, the voices of the Native Americans were suppressed as the American people displaced them to enjoy the “pristine” parks.<sup>28</sup> Similarly, as tourists blog and share their experiences diving in the Marshall Islands suppressed the voices, history, and the tragedies of the Bikinians. Their once cherished homeland had transformed into an aquatic playground for divers. As divers explore the undercover ruins from nuclear testing, they fail to remember the tragedies endured by the people above the water. They fail to recall how those warships sunk to the depths of the ocean. They encroach on the territories that the Bikinians called home. Whether on the main continent or deep in the pacific ocean, the American pristine wilderness and natural getaways have been built at the expense of others' homelands. Even though Bikini Atoll is now seen in a more positive light, it still fails to align with the Bikinian view of the atoll as their home.

## Nautical Nonsense

The final American place-myth surrounding Bikini atoll is shown through the children’s television series, SpongeBob SquarePants. Though this television show is a favorite among children globally, it has some dark origins. It was created in 1990 by marine scientist Stephen Hillenburg. As one of the longest running American animated series, it has grossed over $13 billion dollars as of 2019.<sup>29</sup> Bikini Bottom, the main setting of the series, is derived from Bikini Atoll. Or at least what is at the bottom of it. Some fan theories even extend this to correlate the radiation to be the origin of SpongeBob and his friends, who are mostly mutated sea creatures.<sup>30</sup> This SpongeBob origin story follows that of the popular Japanese movie, Godzilla, which is a mutation generated by radiation from the atomic bombs dropped in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.<sup>31</sup>

Critics argue that SpongeBob SquarePants appropriates the homeland of the Bikinians. It overwrites the displacement and trauma that the Bikinians faced on this land and normalizes settler colonialism. It indoctrinates the public to see the word Bikini as a “nautical nonsense” (as the show is described in the theme song) rather than a home for the Bikinians.<sup>32</sup> In fact, the Bikini anthem juxtaposes the theme song of SpongeBob SquarePants. The Bikinian Anthem describes the desire for the Bikinians to return home. It describes how their lives are no longer peaceful nor harmonious because of the nostalgia regarding life on their islands.<sup>33</sup> Yet this is not the song people know or associate with Bikini. It is evident that SpongeBob SquarePants has washed away the meaning behind Bikini Atoll.

The way Bikini Atoll itself is portrayed in the show is quite different from the Bikinian place-myth for their home. In SpongeBob SquarePants, the above water and the atoll are portrayed as a different realm. A realm separate from Bikini Bottom. However, this is not the case for Bikinians. To the Bikinians, land is interconnected. The sky, the land, and the ocean are all one “environment.” It is more than just a resource or a commodity that can be owned. The holistic view of land from the Bikinians is a result of their origin stories. The creation of the islands resulted from the efforts of hungry Marshallese fishermen. They pulled up the islands, populated with many beautiful, food-bearing palm trees. The islands were a gift from the ocean for the people. They originated from the ocean and therefore are part of the ocean.<sup>34</sup>

To the Bikinians, the verticality of the environment extends further than the verticality of oceans described by PhD candidate, Samm Newton. She argues that the ocean is a vertical landscape. On land, the environment is thought of horizontally. We think about how things move across the land, on just one axis, but the same cannot be applied to the oceans. Compared to terrestrial land, the ocean has many different levels, in which different activities occur and wildlife inhabit.<sup>35</sup> The Bikinian place-myth of land extends this view to the land above the ocean as well as the skies and heavens above.<sup>36</sup> It contrasts the interpretation of the ocean by SpongeBob SquarePants and the interpretation by the United States during the operation.

Military reports of Operation Crossroads show their post-test results on the naval vessels, which were in “imminent danger of sinking.” The reports also indicate the detonation of nuclear bombs not only on land, but under the ocean surface as well.<sup>37</sup> They allowed the radioactive waste to sink and pollute the ocean and the life within it. When the radioactive waste sunk into the ocean, it no longer was a problem for the United States. This shows how the Western separation of the land realm and ocean realm contradicts the Bikinian view of the world.

## The Bikinian Legacy

Today, Bikini Atoll may seem like a paradise, but the radiation still lingers. Although the land is still unsafe for long term habitation, the Bikinians are fighting for efforts to restore their home. The Bikinians have been silenced throughout the history of nuclear testing. Despite their lives being dramatically altered by it, they have been pushed out of the spotlight. When the United Nations gave the United States rights over the Marshall Islands, they were tasked with the responsibility to protect its people. America promised to protect the Marshallese, but failed to do so. America has failed to uphold their end of the exchange. They promised that “never mind if you are living on a sandbar or even adrift on a raft at sea. We will take care of you as if you are our very own children.”<sup>38</sup> Yet this care has led to nothing but tragedies among the Bikinians and the Marshallese. In order to seek the care and protection that the Marshallese were entitled to, many have relocated to the mainland, in Springdale, Arkansas. Here, they seek better education, economic opportunities, and healthcare.<sup>39</sup> They continue to fight for justice over the violations against them. They pursue monetary compensation to restore the atoll so that someday, they can all return home, or at least reclaim the place that their ancestors were able to call home.


## Notes

1. “Policy & History,” *U.S. Embassy in the Republic of the Marshall Islands*, February 9, 2022, 2.
2. R. C. Kiste, “Marshall Islands,” *Encyclopedia Britannica*, October 31, 2023.
3. Jessica A. Schwartz, “Marshallese Cultural Diplomacy in Arkansas,” *American Quarterly* 67, no.<sup>3</sup> (2015): 784.
4. National Archives and Records Administration, “Marshall Islands Feasibility Study” (2022), 16.
5. Jeffrey Sasha Davis, “Representing place: ‘deserted isles’ and the reproduction of Bikini Atoll,” *Annals of the Association of American Geographers* 95, no.<sup>3</sup> (2010): 621.
6. Ibid., 614.
7. Ibid., 615.
8. Jonathan M. Weisgall, *Operation Crossroads: The Atomic Tests at Bikini Atoll* (Annapolis, MD: Naval Institute Press, 1994), 118.
9. E. J. Rooney, “Strange People From Bikini,” *New York Times*, March 31, 1946, 23.
10. Jonathan M. Weisgall, *Operation Crossroads: The Atomic Tests*, 308.
11. William L. Laurence, “Bikini Get’s Truman’s Thanks,” *New York Times*, July 17, 1946.
12. Jonathan M. Weisgall, *Operation Crossroads: The Atomic Tests*, 309.
13. Ibid., 313.
14. Trans-Lux, advertisement, *Evening Star*, July 11, 1946, p. A-22.
15. Jeffrey Sasha Davis, “Islands As Wastelands,” in *The Empires’ Edge: Militarization, Resistance, and Transcending Hegemony in the Pacific* (2015), 63–64.
16. *Celebrating “Operation Crossroads” at Bikini Atoll*, photograph, November 5, 1946.
17. Holly M. Barker, “Unsettling SpongeBob and the Legacies of Violence on Bikini Bottom,” *The Contemporary Pacific* 31, no.<sup>2</sup> (2019): 362.
18. Jonathan M. Weisgall, *Operation Crossroads: The Atomic Tests*, 120.
19. Ibid., 227.
20. Ibid., 304.
21. Holly M. Barker, “Unsettling SpongeBob,” 361.
22. Jeffrey Sasha Davis, “Representing Place: ‘deserted isles’,” 617.
23. Holly M. Barker, “Unsettling SpongeBob,” 348–49.
24. Matt Villneuve, “Post-war Bounties and Burdens: Bombs, Oil, and Atoms,” lecture, HIS 460, University of Wisconsin–Madison, November 21, 2023.
25. Holly Barker, “Unsettling SpongeBob,” 349.
26. Jeffrey Sasha Davis, “Representing Place: ‘deserted isles’,” 619.
27. William Cronon, ed., *Uncommon Ground: Rethinking the Human Place in Nature* (New York: W. W. Norton & Co., 1995), 9.
28. Ibid., 15.
29. Xu, “SpongeBob SquarePants,” *Encyclopedia*, accessed December 14, 2023.
30. Holly Barker, “Unsettling SpongeBob,” 350.
31. Nicholas D. Kristoff, “Godzilla's Home Opens It Arms To Scuba Divers,” *New York Times*, June 22, 1997, 22.
32. Holly Barker, “Unsettling SpongeBob,” 345.
33. Ibid., 355.
34. Ibid., 352–53.
35. Samm Newton, “Vertical Environments,” lecture, HIS 460, University of Wisconsin–Madison, November 16, 2023.
36. Holly Barker, “Unsettling SpongeBob,” 353.
37. Joint Task Force One, Washington, DC, “Operation Crossroads. Atomic Bomb Tests Able and Baker Conducted at Bikini Atoll, Marshall Islands on 1 July 1946 and 25 July 1946. Volume 1,” DTIC, January 1, 1946, 118.
38. Ruth Guyer, “Radioactivity and Rights,” *American Journal of Public Health* 91, no.<sup>9</sup> (September 2001): 1372.
39. Jessica A. Schwartz, “Marshallese Cultural Diplomacy,” 788.

## Bibliography

- Barker, Holly M. “Unsettling SpongeBob and the Legacies of Violence on Bikini Bottom.” *The Contemporary Pacific* 31, no.<sup>2</sup> (2019): 345–79. https://www.jstor.org/stable/26784501.
- Celebrating “Operation Crossroads” at Bikini Atoll. November 5, 1946. Photograph.
- Cronon, William. *Uncommon Ground: Rethinking the Human Place in Nature*. New York: W. W. Norton & Co., 1995.
- Davis, Sasha. “Islands As Wastelands.” Essay. In *The Empires’ Edge: Militarization, Resistance, and Transcending Hegemony in the Pacific*, 52–69. Athens: The University of Georgia Press, 2015.
- Davis, Jeffrey Sasha. “Representing place: ‘deserted isles’ and the reproduction of Bikini Atoll.” *Annals of the Association of American Geographers*, vol. 95, no. 3,<sup>2</sup> Nov. 2010, pp. 607–625. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8306.2005.00477.x.
- Guyer, Ruth. “Radioactivity and Rights.” *American Journal of Public Health* 91, no.<sup>9</sup> (September 2001): 1371–76. https://doi.org/10.2105/ajph.91.9.1371.
- Kiste, R. C. “Marshall Islands.” *Encyclopedia Britannica*, October 31, 2023.
- Joint Task Force One; Washington Dc. “Operation Crossroads. Atomic Bomb Tests Able and Baker Conducted at Bikini Atoll, Marshall Islands on 1 July 1946 and 25 July 1946. Volume 1.” DTIC, January 1, 1946. https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/citations/tr/AD0473986.
- Kristoff, Nicholas D. “Godzilla's Home Opens It Arms To Scuba Divers.” *New York Times*, June 22, 1997. (22)
- Laurence, William L. “Bikini Get’s Truman’s Thanks.” *New York Times*, July 17, 1946.
- National Archives and Records Administration. 2022. “Marshall Islands Feasibility Study.” Accessed November 19, 2023. https://www.archives.gov/files/pidb/recommendations/marshall-islands-feasibility-study￾2022-.pdf
- Newton, Samm. “Vertical Environments.” (lecture, HIS 460, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, November 16, 2023).
- “Policy & History.” U.S. Embassy in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, February 9, 2022. https://mh.usembassy.gov/our-relationship/policy-history/#:~:text=The%20Marshall%20Islands%20is%20an,just%20north%20of%20the%20equator.
- Rooney, E. J. “Strange People From Bikini.” *New York Times*, March 31, 1946.
- Schwartz, Jessica A. “Marshallese Cultural Diplomacy in Arkansas.” *American Quarterly* 67, no.<sup>3</sup> (2015): 781–812. http://www.jstor.org/stable/43823234.
- Trans-Lux. “Bikini Atom Bomb Blast”. Advertisement. *Evening Star*, July 11, 1946. p.A-22.
- Villneuve, Matt. “Post-war Bounties and Burdens: Bombs, Oil, and Atoms.” (lecture, HIS 460, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, November 21, 2023).
- Weisgall, Jonathan M. *Operation crossroads: The atomic tests at Bikini Atoll.* Annapolis, MD: Naval Inst. Press, 1994.
- Xu, Handwiki. “SpongeBob SquarePants” Encyclopedia, https://encyclopedia.pub/entry/36242 (accessed December 14, 2023).
